today I want to present the option
trading strategy credit spreads these
are one of the simplest and in my
opinion one of the best strategies out
of all credit spreads our vertical
spreads and vertical spreads are
characterized by having the same number
of long short options on the same
underlying with the same exploration
debt but with two different strike
prices the two most common and
well-known vertical spreads are credit
spreads and debit spreads the difference
between these two being that just like
the name implies credit spreads are open
for credit and debit spreads are opened
for a debit in other words you have to
pay to open a debit spread but they
received money when opening a credit
spread the mount paid or received is
also called premium credit spreads are
an overall short option strategy in an
earlier video I discussed the difference
between over long and short option
strategies I'll leave a link in the
description below for you to check out
after this video in this video I will
present all the relevant features of
credit spreads first of all there are
two different types of credit spreads
there are bull put credit spreads and
our baracoa credit spreads will put
credit spreads or a bullish strategy
where's bear cool credit spreads are a
bearish strategy this is how the payoff
diagrams look like the orange line shows
the payoff of the strategy at expiration
and the blue line shows the payoff
sometime before the expiration date just
like I said earlier setting up credit
spreads is extremely easy and only
requires two options the setup of a bull
put credits red consists of one long out
of the money put and one short out of
the money put it is important to say
that the short could
has to be at a higher strike price than
the long put the setup of a bear call
credits read is just as easy as the
previous one all you have to do is sell
one core and buy one call at a higher
strike price the crosses show where
these PR options are positioned
now let us move on to the profit and
loss of these two threads as you may
have noticed already as long as the
price of the underlying asset stays on
the one side of the strike of the short
option max profit who will be achieved
at expiration the price of the
underlying has to be higher than the
short strike for the bullish credit
spread and below the shorts ripe for
bearish credit spreads but note that
this is only for the payoff on the
expiration date before maturity and move
in the correct direction will create a
profit on the downside the loss is kept
as well the max loss will occur if the
price is below for put credit spreads or
above for cool credit spreads the long
options strike price so credit spread is
both a defiant risk and a defined profit
strategy but what exactly is the max
profit at max loss if you are trading in
a broker platform any broker will show
you what your max loss and Max profit
will be if your broker does not do that
I recommend changing broker it is
nevertheless always a good idea to be
aware of what influences your max profit
and Max loss therefore I will show you
what your loss and profit depends on and
give you an example in a second max
profit on a credit spread is nothing
else than your net premium received -
commissions max loss on the other hand
is calculated by subtracting the net
credit taken in from the width of the
strikes that you then have to multiply
by 100 the multiplication with 100 is
due to the pricing of options options
control 1 or shares of the underlying
but the pricing is still given in at a
quantity of 1 for example when you buy
one option for $20 for options price
will be quoted 0.2 dollars on top of
that come Commission's to understand
these calculations much better I will
give you an example for both the call
to put credit spread to do this I will
specify the strikes and more of to
example credit spreads the strikes for
the blue put credit spread are 93 at 95
the credit taken in is 0.55 dollars so
55 dollars the strikes for the bell call
credit spread are 105 and 107 the credit
is 0.5 one dollar or fifty one dollars
for this example I will just ignore
Commission's as they don't help with
understanding therefore max profit is
equal to the net premium so fifty five
and fifty one dollars now all we have to
do to find out max loss is put in the
given numbers into the calculation the
width of the strikes is two for both red
spreads so max loss is $149 for the put
credit spread and one at $45 for the
core credit spread the reason why I
chose a lower credit for the PUD spread
is because this often is the case as
prices tend to fall faster than they
rise now the only point left to find out
is the break-even point luckily it is
very easy to find this out all you have
to do is subtract or add the credits
taken in to the short strike you have to
subtract it for the puts red when added
to the short strike of the coal credit
spread out of these calculations you can
partly see that the further your strikes
are apart the bigger the max loss and
Max profit will become these
calculations may seem complicated
therefore you can be happy about the
fact that you practically never will
have to do them yourself once again your
broker should always show these numbers
as you can see if max loss is much
higher than max profit
therefore this strategy may seem like a
rather bad one but the bad risk to
reward ratio gets compensated by
something else which are which I want to
present to you in a second let us speak
about the market assumption for
fritzsche now before I already mentioned
that the put credit spread is a bullish
strategy and the core credit spread is
very strategy but this is only half of
the truth credit spreads actually are a
neutral to range balanced strategy if
you take a closer look at the payoff
diagram of a coil thread you can see
that the price of the underlying ideally
should move down but if the price moves
up you can still make money the price
just shouldn't move up and beyond the
strike of the short option even if the
underlying price stays exactly the same
the spread will still end with max
profit this means if the underlyings
price stays in the green range max
profit will be achieved the same goes
for a bear call credit spread they have
a big profitable range as well so the
price can either move in one direction
stay the same or move a little in the
other direction this big profitable
range extra threats a very high
probability strategy therefore the
directional assumption for a good credit
spread doesn't really matter a lot
because the price of most underlyings
won't move that far anyways in most
cases therefore the bad risk to reward
ratio isn't actually in that bad
the further the options are out of the
money the higher the probability of
profit becomes good option brokers even
show you the probability of profit for
your option spread the next and final
aspect of credit spreads are the Greek's
if you don't know what the Greeks are I
highly encourage you to check out my
video on options pricing where I present
all the Greeks as well the short option
of credit spreads should always be
closer to the underlying price and then
the long option so it's basically closer
to add the money therefore it will have
much more value and thus be more
dominant
this is the reason why credit spreads
are an overall short option strategy due
to that the Greeks of the short options
are the ones to look at I explained this
table in some of my previous videos
basically it shows the impact of the
Greeks on different option positions as
the as the short options are the
dominant ones in this strategy we can
neglect the Greeks for the long options
Delta measures the route change of the
option surprise for a one dollar move up
in the underlining so upward is
obviously a short put will profit from a
move up and a short call will lose value
from that move therefore the plus and
the minus the impact of the remaining
Greeks is the same for both short
options Vega measures the change of the
options price for a move and implied
volatility or IV a minus indicates a
loss of value in short options for a
rise in implied volatility this also
means that short options and credit
spreads profit from a drop in implied
volatility therefore it is ideal to open
credit spreads in times of high implied
volatility theta also known as time
decay is a very important measure it
measures the change in the options price
for time passing by so plus symbolizes
again this means that short options and
credit spreads profit just from time
passing by for these positions time
therefore is literally money the amount
of time decay doesn't change in a linear
way and becomes higher the closer you
get to expiration in other words the
amount that the credit spreads profit
from time decay becomes larger closer to
expiration the last relevant Greek is
gamma which measures the rate of change
of Delta a large gamma means the
Delta will change very rapidly and that
the options price will lose more and
more of its value for every one dollar
move in the wrong direction
furthermore the profit for every one
dollar move of the underlying in the
correct direction will become smaller
and smaller gamma increases the closer
the positions are to exploration in
other words a credit spread can lose
value much quicker
closer to expiration or can be
disregarded for now as it is only
relevant for very long-term option
positions now let us look at some
example credit spreads from my trading
I've picked three different ones that
hopefully can give you an idea of the
versatility of credit spreads the first
example is a bearer cool credit spread
in s py and ETF tracking the S&P 500
back then s py was trading for a seeker
to hunt for t $4 I chose the strikes 248
and 250 the blue line represents the
short strike so $248 if the price is
below that line for position who reached
max profit if it moves up and beyond
that price lever the position would end
at a loss the two circles are my entry
and exit point the reason why I chose
this example is because you can clearly
see that the underlying price moved
against me nevertheless the credits red
ended up being profitable I closed it
had the next bigger move down this
really shows the high probability aspect
of credit spreads the entire price area
below the blue line is max profit for
that credit spread my next example is
another bear call credit spread in IWM
this time my strikes are one at thirty
four point five and one at forty four so
a very narrow credit spread resulting in
little credit and little risk this was a
credit spread that are closed already of
the very few days as my profit target
was reached I entered the position a few
dollars out of the money the price fell
immediately and the percentage wise big
profit was achieved but even if I hadn't
closed the position then the position
still would have been in the profitable
range for another month or so my final
example is a bullet put credit spread in
QQQ my strikes were 43 and 41 at entry
QQQ was trading at around $44 as visible
the price moved against me a few times
but the positions what position was
still closed for a profit as credit
spreads our limited risk strategies I
rarely closed them at a loss if there is
enough time left just like here it is
often the case that the price will turn
around and return to the profitable zone
last but not least I want to give you
some of my personal tips that I use and
that I learned from my trading so far
credit spreads in my opinion a very good
option strategy and in fact they are one
of my favorite strategies out of or they
are suitable for almost any trading
account no much matter the size bigger
accounts can increase the width of and
trade them on larger assets whereas
people with smaller accounts can trade
them as well credit spreads are an
amazing strategy for high probability
options selling and I usually recommend
trading around a probability of profit
of 70% but feel free to experiment with
this obviously you should only open
credit spreads for credit and it is best
to sell and buy only out of the money
options for credit spreads at least but
don't go too far or too little out of
the money as this can lead to very small
credits from my experience I've learned
that taking in
two small credits can lead to bigger
problems as well so the rule of thumb it
is a good idea to always take in at
least $25 of credit but the more the
better for bigger spreads with more
credit taking in I recommend closing the
position at 50% of max profit the 50% of
max profit gets reached within very very
short time it is often not worth the
wait for the remaining profit
furthermore you should ideally always
open credit spreads in a high implied
volatility environment as reference you
could use IV rank IV rank tells you how
high or low implied volatility currently
is compared to historical figures of an
asset finally I normally open credit
spreads around 30 to 45 days before
expiration but it's also a good idea to
change this up sometimes if you want to
learn how to specifically set up credits
read in a broker platform you can click
here or check the description for a link
I really hope that you enjoyed this
video and learned a lot if you want to
learn more about credit spreads other
option strategies or just trading in
general you can check out my website
trade options with me calm I only offer
100% free education and options the
market and more hopefully I'll see you
there thanks for watching if you want to
see more educational videos like this
one make sure to LIKE and subscribe
otherwise tell me what strategy you want
me to present next in the comment
section below